# Notes from January 14th 2019
"Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.”

<cite>- Neil Gaiman</cite>

## Function Parameters
> Every function definition in Python contains these `()` because functions can accept changeable data called **parameters**

Often times, *parameters* are called **arguments**.

Example

    def main(cat):
        print("You have a cat named:", cat)
        
    main("Jimmy")
    # Prints "You have a cat named: Jimmy")
    
In this example, `cat` is a parameter of the function `main`. You can reference the name of a paramater when you are calling a function, but this is optional. The following two are equivalent.

    main("Jimmy")
    main(cat="Jimmy")
    
In either case, the *local variable* `cat` will be assigned the value "Jimmy". I call `cat` a *local variable* because it only exists inside the function. In other words, this will produce an error:

    def main(cat):
        print("You have a cat named:", cat)
        
    main("Jimmy")
    # Prints "You have a cat named: Jimmy")
    
    print(cat)
    # NameError: name 'cat' is not defined

## For Loop
> A loop tells Python to repeat the same thing over and over.

The `range()` Python built-in function generates a list of numbers that can be *looped* over.

Note: In our chaos program, we don't actually use the numbers generated by `range()`, but we do make use of the list of items created to *loop* a set number of times.

    range(10)
    # Creates a list: [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]
    # You can view by using `list` function
    # list(range(10))
    
    # Using a for loop:
    for counting_number in range(10):
        print(counting_number)
    # Prints 0, 1, 2, ...
    
## Formatting Strings
> You can use the special string method `format` to get the desired string formatting.

This only works on *strings* that are properly enclosed in single, double, or triple quotes. The format method goes *after* the string using dot notation.

	name = "Bob"
	tree = "fir"
	message_to_print = "Hello, {0}. You've been {1}ed!".format(name, tree)
	
	print(message_to_print)
	
	# Prints "Hello, Bob. You've been fired!"
    

## Et Cetera
* Slides for [Chapter 01](http://mcsp.wartburg.edu/zelle/python/ppics3/slides/Chapter01.pptx)
* Slides for [Chapter 02](http://mcsp.wartburg.edu/zelle/python/ppics3/slides/Chapter02.pptx)
* Examples for [Lecture 03](../examples/lecture03.py)
* Repl.it Development Environment: [https://repl.it](https://repl.it/)
